ADRIAN WALKER

Email: adrian.walker@bcs.org
Date of Birth: 2nd July, 1982
Marital Status: Single
Nationality: British
Driving Licence: 16 years, clean

A programmer with over a decade of experience developing bespoke systems 
programmed mainly in Java.  Now seeking new software engineering challenges and 
career development prospects.  An excellent problem solver with a passion for 
learning new skills.


EXPERIENCE

Senior Developer
The Health and Social Care Information Centre
August 2015 - present

Developing systems and tools to author and support the creation, conversion, 
mapping and search of clinical terminologies and classifications.  Extending and
developing open source projects to manage large clinical data sets such as 
SMONED CT, ICD-10 and OPCS-4, for internal customers and collaborting with
external partners such as IHTSDO.

Lead Developer
Piksel / KIT Digital / ioko
August 2010 - August 2015

Designing and building web applications, desktop applications and data
processing systems for our client, IMS Health.  Programming systems in Java, TCL
and Python, backed by Oracle, MySQL and Postgres databases responsible for the 
delivery, storage, processing and reporting of global data streams.  Using agile
development practices to produce data delivery solutions for deployment to 
pharmacies, internally and externally managed Linux environments, and workflow
tools for data processing and manipulation.

Systems Developer
The Food and Environment Research Agency
April 2009 - August 2010

Developing commercial and in-house computer systems to further the Science of
FERA and a range of internal and external stakeholders e.g. DEFRA, the EU and
other government bodies.  Responsible for the design and development of web
applications, mobile applications, databases and information systems in Java, 
ColdFusion and SQL Server.

Java Developer
Erudine
July 2008 - April 2009

Developer on customer projects in sectors as diverse as education, commercial 
and government. Using agile and extreme programming techniques to deliver high 
quality, innovative systems to meet tight deadlines.  Also working on the latest
release of the company’s product the 'Behaviour Engine' - a test driven rule 
engine and graphical authoring environment written in Java.

Information Systems Developer
The University Of York
December 2007 - July 2008

Developer for the Department of Biology.  Responsible for the implementation of 
the department’s electronic information strategy.  Developing bespoke, data 
driven, interactive web sites in Java with MySQL storage to manage and increase
the availability of dynamic information.  Extending and deploying an open source
Enterprise Content Management system to hold the Department’s administration and
research data.

Analyst Programmer
The British Library
May 2004 - December 2007

Working on a variety of projects as part of the remote document supply team, 
working mainly on search, ordering, processing and payment systems, fronted with
web interfaces.  Designing, developing and deploying systems making use of large
customer and bibliographic information databases, programming in Java and Perl 
with SQL Server and Live Link Discovery Server text retrieval database.


QUALIFICATIONS / MEMBERSHIPS

BEng Hons, Computer Systems Engineering (2:ii)
University Of Warwick
2000 – 2003

3-year course taught by the Department of Computer Science and the School of 
Engineering.  This course combined study of both the hardware and software 
aspects of computers, with study of the engineering systems in which they are 
used.

A Level Physics (A), Mathematics (B), Chemistry (C), General Studies (C), 
AS Level Computing (A)
Fulford School, York
1998 - 2000              	

Professional Membership (MBCS)
The British Computer Society
2004 - present

Security Check (SC) Cleared
2008 - 2014


TECHNICAL SKILLS

Programming Languages:-
Java SDK 1.3 – 8, J2EE/Java EE 5/6, Java ME Personal Profile 1.0/1.1, C, 
JavaScript (jQuery, AngularJS), TCL, ColdFusion, Matlab, Python/Jython, Perl, 
Bash, HTML/XHTML, CSS

Enterprise Java:-
Tomcat, Glassfish, Jboss, EJB 3/3.1, Jetty, JSP and Servlet programming, Spring,
Google Web Toolkit, JSF, Struts, Apache Velocity, SOA / web service programming, 
Java Persistence API (Toplink, EclipseLink and Hibernate), OOP, AOP

Relational Databases:-
MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, Postgres, Apache Derby, HSQLDB, JDBC Programming

Operating Systems:-
Linux (RedHat/Fedora/CentOS, Debian/Ubuntu, Suse), Windows Server, Solaris, 
Tru64, VAX VMS

Testing and Static Analysis:-
JUnit, DBUnit, Hudson & Jenkins, Checkstyle, FindBugs, PMD, JaCoCo

XML:-
WSDL, XSD schema & DTD design, XPath, XSLT, DOM, SAX, StAX, JAX-B

Web Services:-
Axis, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, JSON

Source Control Revision Systems:-
Git, Subversion (SVN) & CVS, MS Source Safe
 
Build Systems:-
Apache Maven, Apache Ant

IDEs:-
Netbeans, Eclipse, JEdit, ColdFusion Builder


REFERENCES

References available on request.
